# ENTM6820
In this repository there are two folders: one including all class files, the other includes the files important for the reproducible workflow assignment.

The data for this project is 8 weeks worth of crape myrtle bark scale population counts from CMBS infested crape myrtles in the greenhouse. Adult and Crawler counts were taken weekly over 2 months on 36 trees with 6 different treatments. All data are physical, in-situ counts, taken by hand. CMBS adults and crawlers were counted on 10 cm of 3 random branches. The most common form of control for CMBS is a soil drench treatment of systemic neonicotinoids like imidacloprid. The goal of the experiment was to determine if limonene, a botanical, had similar or better control of CMBS than common chemical insecticides including pyriproxyfen, dinotefuran, and imidacloprid, as well as a water treatment and a non-treated control. Based on previous unpublished data, we hypothesized that limonene would meet or exceed our expectations for the control of CMBS.

Included in the reproducible workflow file is a short abstract containing the background of the experiment (https://github.com/jmm0206/ENTM6820/blob/main/ReproducibleWorkFlow/Abstract.docx), the raw data from this experiment(https://github.com/jmm0206/ENTM6820/blob/main/ReproducibleWorkFlow/LimoR.csv), and the R Markdown file containing statistical code, analysis, and figures for presentation (https://github.com/jmm0206/ENTM6820/blob/main/ReproducibleWorkFlow/Reproducible%20Workflow%20Code.Rmd). The presentation can also be found in this folder.

I ran a linear model, ANOVA, and Tukey's test on the data and provided several figures showing the data in different ways.
